Let's have a look at multiplication next.
Again, the very basics, let's say b is 2,
I can print out a
and I also have this short syntax for multiplying a with b,
therefore if I print this, I of course get 24.
Do I also have this syntax here?
Let's see,
what do you think happens?
We get an error,
so that's not possible here.
What do you think happens if I get rid of this
and I again add my multiplication here where I print out the result and I change a to be 1.3,
what
do you think is printed out if I hit run?
Well 2.6 of course.
Now what do you think happens if I change 2 to 2.2?
Let's see what happens if I hit run,
that is very strange.
That clearly is not the correct answer,
the answer should be 2.86 and all of that stuff shouldn't be there
and that's a bug in Javascript, it has its issues with floating point numbers and it has the bug of
adding
this strange part here, so making a more complex number out of this than it actually is,
which of course is a big problem if you were doing the following
for example. Let's say you have an if statement and you were checking if a * b equals 2.86
which of course you would expect to be true,
so like this and you certainly would not expect
to get false.
However if you run this code, you would get false because it's not equal in Javascript's world,
even though you know in the real world, it's very equal.
So this is a common bug with Javascript.
Now a good fix for this problem is to put this calculation into parentheses here and use the toFixed
method on it.
Now this method here takes an argument where you define to how many numbers you want to or decimal places
you want to basically round or fix there.
Therefore now if I run this, we get true because we're not getting this number anymore
when comparing it here but instead we're fixing it and we're cutting off all the part
we don't want. This is a fix you should use when doing calculations with floating point numbers since
it might be a source of very annoying and hard to trace down bugs because who would expect for Javascript
to behave this way,
right?
So with this very important bug out of the way, let's have a look at some other calculations.
Imagine you have a number and a number as a string,
what do you think will happen?
Well we get 4.4. As before,
Javascript is not able to build strings out of multiplication operations,
so it tries to cast a string into a number instead.
Therefore if I change this to something which can't be cast to a number, I'll get NaN because
it's not able to finish this calculation and as well, I also can't multiply two strings,
this will also result in NaN.
Now what do you think happens if I have a number and then here,
I have null?
Well let's see it, well it gets zero because null gets interpreted as zero as before.
So basically, these types of casting or interpretating of values haven't changed, the most important part
to
take away here is the issue about floating point numbers and be aware that this is also the case when
dividing floating point numbers.
Now there is one value I haven't shown you yet and this is infinity,
sounds strange but what do you think we'll print if I hit run?
We get infinity,
so that's basically a representation of an infinite value
and if we multiply something with infinity, we of course get infinity.